What many notice when they
first attend meetings of Jehovah’s Witnesses
is that they hear God’s name, Jehovah.
In this life story,
Soten Yoeun relates the impact
that learning God’s name had on her
after surviving
the killing fields of Cambodia.
On the killing fields in Cambodia,
I prayed to God,
but I didn’t know his name.
When I was a very young girl,
they separated our family
and they put me to work in the rice field
from five in the morning
till nine in the evening.
When you see
some other children that get killed,
you really desperately cry for help inside.
You always think that you are next.
But in my heart I always believed
that there had to be a true God somewhere,
somehow that can help me get through this.
One year later, my family decided
to escape Cambodia.
We walk close to six or seven months
to Thailand.
And I have 20 brothers and sisters
—only 4 of us survived.
I have a blind aunt
that holds on my shoulder all the time.
But one day, we got caught.
As they start shooting, I push my aunt down
to the ground and try to pretend
that we are dead.
And when I got up,
I had no idea where my parent was.
We spent many months in the jungle.
As I try to survive,
I eat whatever I can find,
and I also help my auntie to survive.
One day when I go out to look for food,
I walked so far away
I couldn’t find my way back.
I start crying really hard underneath a tree
and look up to the sky
and pray to the true God.
I was raised as a child to pray to Buddhas.
But on this night
when I start praying, I specifically said
that I’m not praying to Buddha
—I’m praying to the true God.
And I say,
“True God, if you are really here,
“please help me because I am really scared
and I’m hungry and I’m cold.”
After I pray,
I just fall to sleep under the big tree.
Eventually, I make it into the refugee camp
in Thailand,
and I was reunited with my family.
We lived in the refugee camp in Thailand
for about ten years
before we come to United States.
My searching for the true God,
it didn’t stop there.
We tried to go to different churches,
but we didn’t understand anything.
One day when I come home from school,
I met this gentlemen named Herold,
and he asked if he can talk to me about God.
I agree because I saw he have a Bible;
he must be a good man.
When he talked to me,
I tried to pay attention so hard,
but I still didn’t understand
what he was saying.
And he went very slow.
And then he said, “Your name?”
I said, “My name Soten.”
And then he said, “Your name, Soten;
“my name is Herold.
God’s name, Jehovah.”
I never thought that God had name.
And ever since that day on,
I never forget Jehovah’s name.
It’s superglued in my heart.
He gave me
his phone number.
He say he gonna ask his wife
to stop by someday,
but then I move away from where I lived.
Even though I
didn’t do the truth at that time,
I always pray to Jehovah.
After I learned God’s name,
I went back to the church.
The priest would start out
with “heavenly Father”
but leave out Jehovah’s name.
So I raised my hand.
I asked him,
“Sir, when you pray, ‘heavenly Father,’
“why don’t you say, ‘heavenly Father,
“Jehovah’?
Why you not using God’s name?”
And then he told me
that God does not force me to be here,
so I’m welcomed to leave
or stay if I want.
So because I realized
that they don’t use Jehovah’s name,
I left and never returned.
And after many years, I tried to call Herold,
but no one picked up the phone.
So I leave a message.
I was hoping that they remembered me.
Two weeks later, Herold comes to my door,
but at the time, I was working at night
and asleep during the day.
But Herold never give up; he come back.
And I keep on praying to Jehovah,
asking for someone to knock on my door.
And finally, one day I open the door,
and when I saw him, I almost couldn’t talk.
I was teared up.
I was so happy to see him
because this is the man
who introduced me to Jehovah’s name.
Eventually, I start to study with a sister,
and she helped me grow spiritually.
To know that you have a heavenly Father
that cares about you
—that was the best feeling on earth.
It makes me want to know more about him
—want to learn more about him.
I would ask questions: “Did he like this?
Did he like that?”
And then when I go to the Kingdom Hall,
I hear Jehovah’s name so many times.
I feel, that’s it!
I found my place.
I got baptized in 2013.
My blind aunt
that I help her survive through the jungle,
she’s still living until today.
And now that I can get a chance
to talk to her about Jehovah,
that was a blessing.
And I can’t stress enough how wonderful
and big privilege that I receive from Jehovah
—just to know who he is
and to learn that there is true God.
He have a name,
and his name is Jehovah.
Sister Yoeun still carries painful memories
from what she and her family suffered
because of man’s ruthless wars.
But she now has hope for the future
and the comfort of knowing
her heavenly Father, Jehovah
—something we all share with her.
Sister Yoeun has the added joy
of worshipping the true God together
with her husband and young daughter.